# Introduction

A collection of `\NewUnicodeChar` declarations for use in LaTeX.

The file [unicode.pdf](unicode.pdf) is generated from
[unicode.org](unicode.org) as evidence that the unicode characters are
declared correctly.

# Instruction on using this repository

There are at least three ways you could include of `unicode.sty` in your
project(s).

1.  Copy `unicode.sty` and add it to your repo.
      - The disadvantage to this approach is that you must manually
        update `unicode.sty` if it changes here, and any changes you
        make to one local copy will not be carried over to other copies
        you make.
2.  Clone this project or copy `unicode.sty`, and place it —or a symlink
    to it— in a directory where LaTeX will find it.
      - The disadvantage to this approach is that it is machine local;
        users of your project on other machines must also perform the
        same setup.
3.  Include this repository as a submodule of your repository, via, for
    instance, Git submodules or Git subtrees.
      - The disadvantage to this approach is you must learn how to use
        submodules if you do not already know how.

Option (3) seems the best option, and among Git's submodule mechanisms,
subtrees are apparently the best choice. So this section describes how
to include this repo as a subtree of your project.

Adding the subtree is simple enough.

``` shell
git subtree add --prefix unicode-sty https://github.com/armkeh/unicode-sty.git master --squash
```

The `--squash` flag squashes the history of this repository; if you
prefer to include the full history of this project, omit the flag.

To update the subtree when changes occur to this repository, simply run

``` shell
git subtree pull --prefix unicode-sty https://github.com/armkeh/unicode-sty.git --squash
```

Again, note the `--squash` flag.

# Instructions on using `unicode.sty`

The below instructions are imported here from
[unicode.org](unicode.org). See that file for more details.

## Usage

This file generates (via Org Babel tangling) the file `unicode.sty`.

To use it, either place it in the same directory as your `.tex` file,
and require it via `\usepackage{unicode}`.

Alternatively, place it in your `texmf` directory to allow global usage
on your system. That directory is commonly located at the following
locations on various OS's.

  - Linux
      - `~/texmf/tex/latex/local/`
  - Mac OS X
      - `/Users/<user name>/Library/texmf/tex/latex/local/`
  - Windows 10 (and miktex)
      - `C:\Users\<user
        name>\Appdata\Local\MikTex\<number>\tex\latex\local\`
  - Windows Vista/7
      - `C:\Users\<user name>\texmf\tex\latex\local\`
  - Windows XP
      - `C:\Documents and Settings\<user name>\texmf\tex\latex\local\`

## Requirements

This package depends upon the packages listed herein.

There are two ways to inform LaTeX of unicode character translations;

  - `\DeclareUnicodeCharacter`; this command does not work with XeLaTeX
    or LuaLaTeX, which I use.
  - `\newunicodechar`; this command is provided by the newunicodechar
    package, which may not be pre-installed for all LaTeX users.

This collection uses the second. The unicode-math package “provides a
complete implementation of unicode maths for XeLaTeX and LuaLaTeX”.

## Contributing to this document

This document is written in Emacs using Org mode. While the exported PDF
version, etc., show a collection of LaTeX source blocks, these are in
fact generated by an Emacs Lisp script below.

That means that contributions to this document should modify the Emacs
Lisp script, not `unicode.sty` or the LaTeX source blocks themselves.
